OK, so well, let's go on and go through problem number eight once again, I'm going to encourage you
to pause this video at this point, try some of these problems on your own.
Like I said before, I do have another worksheet for you.
So don't be feeling like a what?
I don't feel like that.
I'll have enough problems over here.
I need to do this on my own.
Trust me, I have enough for you to be doing on your own.
All right.
So with that said, let's go through this problem, or like I said before, pause the video, try out
on your own.
But let's go through this problem right now with an average acceleration of zero point five meters per
second squared.
How far does a cyclist travel if starting from rest and reaches seven meters per second, which is sixty
miles an hour?
OK, so let's read this again with an average acceleration of this.
How far does a cyclist travel if starting from rest?
OK, so we have our cyclist and starting from rest and going, he's going to reach this certain velocity
here, OK?
So.
I think that we have enough here.
What are we going to say that the initial position is of the cyclist?
OK, so it's zero meters.
What is this first piece of information tell us, with an average acceleration of zero point five meters
per second squared?
Well, it's telling us that that's the average acceleration.
And the other key clue is telling us that it's meters per second squared.
So where we're being given here, the acceleration.
OK.
How far will the cyclists travel?
So what does that asking us?
If starting from reste.
What it's starting from us telling us.
Hopefully by now you're saying, hey, no, he's not going fast at all or is as got no speed, he's
at rest.
We know that the initial velocity is zero and he's going to reach seven meters per second.
What is the meter per second telling us?
Well, by now, hopefully you're saying that's the velocity and that is possibly our final velocity.
Oh, this is a little squeeze in here.
I apologize about that.
But we have all of our information that we need.
We have our final velocity that we're going to be well, we're going to be looking for our final velocity,
our final position.
And we have a variable that we don't care about.
Doesn't mention anything at all about time, doesn't ask us for time.
That's the variable that we don't care about.
And that's the variable that we'll be looking for when trying to select our kinematics equation.
So once again, are we given any information on our average velocities now?
Right.
So therefore, we know that we're not going to be using formulas one or two.
We know we're going to be using formulas either three, four or five or six.
So the variable that we don't care about is Delta T, so we're going to be looking for Delta T. Right
now.
We got Delta T. right there.
Don't care about this one.
Not going to be using that formula.
What about this over here?
We have got the key right there, so we're not going be using this formula.
Over here.
Have dealt with there and dealt to you, right there were definitely going to be using this formula.
And do we have Delta tea in here?
No.
OK, so that's going to be our indication.
Now, this is the formal that we're going to be using.
So let's use that.
And I'm just going to draw you are pretty well drawn and we're just going to be using our sixth form.
OK, so let's do our politicians and we'll go from there.
OK, so zero squared, zero time zero is equal to zero, so we don't care about that subtraction of
zero, that's not going to provide any value whatsoever.
So we have seven squared, which is equal to 49, which is seven times seven.
Right.
And then we have this positive two.
Times point five, so that's just equal to one, right?
And so we're just left with access is equal to 49.
And that's their answer.
OK, well, that's simple enough, right?